---
title: What happened after I emailed Sears
date: 2007-11-28T02:51:00-05:00
---
Earlier today, I posted about what I went through with [ordering a vacuum cleaner from Sears.com](http://anotherlab.rajapet.net/2007/11/how-not-to-handle-black-friday-searscom.html "How not to handle Black Friday: Sears.com").  My first inclination was to just call the store.   But I wanted to make sure that I got everything down and with as little emotion as possible.  I can do that better with email than over the phone.  I wasn&#8217;t 100% successful with keeping my emotions out of the message, but I think I accurately conveyed the experience that I went through.

After a little bit of searching with Google, I found the email address of the CEO of Sears, [Aylwin Lewis](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aylwin_Lewis "Wikipedia bio of Aylwin Lewis").  I figured if I sent it there, the executive assistant that would handle the email would send it the right person at the store.  That&#8217;s not exactly what happened.  Mr. Lewis did read it and took action on it.

When I came home from work, I had a message from the district manager for Sears.  He called me back later in the evening and it was a very positive conversation.  He apologized for what happened with Sears.com and for what I went through with the salesman.  He told me that Mr. Lewis had forwarded my message to the nine regional vice-presidents.  They were concerned over the melt-down at Sears.com, and they wanted to address the problem with the sales staff.  They were well aware of the Sears.com melt-down, but having their own sales people bad mouth their Internet portal was something they were not aware of.

I was bit shocked by all of the attention, but I think it shows that they do care about the customer experience.  From what I saw and was told, the Sears.com site was unable to handle the load from the holiday shopping.  That&#8217;s the easy problem to fix.  Their site just didn&#8217;t scale.  You can fix that with more hardware or by tuning the existing hardware and/or software.

The other problem was the one that really bothered me and is why I sent out the email.  That was the experience that I went through when I tried to buy a vacuum out in the appliance department.  That&#8217;s a harder problem to fix, but the district manager (Mark) made it clear that he was going to personally look into it.   I have to give credit to Mark, and the people he works for.  They did listen when I complained.  And he did offer me a small gift to make up for what I went through.  It wasn&#8217;t necessary, but I do appreciate it.  I really think they intend on fixing the problem with the salesmen.
