---
title: KB 938371 woes continue
date: 2008-04-11T14:53:00-05:00
---
I still haven&#8217;t been able to fix [the problem that I reported yesterday](http://anotherlab.rajapet.net/2008/04/vista-update-kb938371-disabled-my-mouse.html "Vista update KB938371 disabled my mouse").  After blogging about how [Vista update KB 938371](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/938371) disabled the mouse on my PC, I have found other people reporting the same problem.  The mouse shows up in the Device Manage as &#8220;unknown device&#8221;.  If I try to install a device driver for it, it fails with th<span><span>e error dialog &#8220;Found New Hardware &#8211; Unknown Device) and displaying the following text:</span></span>

<span><span> </p> 

<blockquote>
  <p>
    Windows encountered a problem installing the driver software for your device
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Windows found driver software for your device but encountered an error while attempting to install it.
  </p>
  
  <p>
         HID-compliant device
  </p>
  
  <p>
    An error occurred during the installation of the device
  </p>
  
  <p>
    The driver installation file for this device is missing a necessary entry.  This may because the INF was written for Windows 95 or later.  Contact your hardware vendor.
  </p>
</blockquote>

<p>
  This occurs with any USB port on my machine and with both of my mice.  I have a Logitech wireless mouse and a basic Dell USB Optical mouse.  I have a mouse with my Wacom tablet that still works.  It has it&#8217;s own drivers and MS didn&#8217;t touch them.  I even took the Microsoft Optical mouse off my wife&#8217;s Vista machine (which is working fine with 938371) and plugged into my machine.  It didn&#8217;t work either.
</p>

<p>
  If I do a System Restore and rollback to the point just before 938371 was installed, the mice work.  As soon as I install 938371, I lose the mice. This is really frustrating as 938371 is a prerequisite for SP1.
</p>

<p>
  I&#8217;ve been posting this tale on a new message boards and blogs.  I&#8217;m not the only person having the problem, but we have yet to identify what we have in common that is triggering this.  My machine is running Vista Home Premium, 32-bit, on an ASUS M2N-SLI Deluxe motherboard. The M2N is NVidia NForce based and I have an AMD Athlon X2 processor in it.  You can read about other peoples symptoms in this MSDN Forum <a title="MSDN Forums » Software Development for Windows Vista » General Windows Vista Development Issues » Re: Vista bites... again" href="http://forums.microsoft.com/Forums/ShowPost.aspx?PostID=3160689&#038;SiteID=1">thread</a>,  this <a title="nV News Forums > Software Forums > Microsoft Windows XP and Vista > KB 938371 disables mouse&#8221; href=&#8221;http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?p=1624577&#8243;>thread</a> I started on an NVidia fan site, and a <a title="Windows Vista Blog: Windows Vista SP1 Update" href="http://windowsvistablog.com/blogs/windowsvista/archive/2008/04/07/windows-vista-sp1-update.aspx">message</a> that I posed in the <a href="http://windowsvistablog.com/blogs/windowsvista/default.aspx">Windows Vista Blog</a>.
</p>

<p>
  </span></span>
</p>
